---
title: "SLATE Quarterly Updates"
overview: Blog
published: true
permalink: blog/updates-may-2020.html
attribution: The SLATE Team
layout: post
type: markdown
tag: draft
---

Welcome to another round of SLATE project updates! It's been quite some time since our last update, so this post will be especially long. On the plus side, we have a lot of cool and interesting new things to tell you about! <!--end_excerpt-->

As always, we encourage you to try things out and let us know what's working, what's not, what can be improved and so on. For discussion, news and troubleshooting, the [SLATE Slack workspace](https://slack.slateci.io/) is the best place to reach us! 

## SLATE Portal
- Security has been hardened, using the findings of an audit conducted by the Open Science Grid security team. 
- Assorted bug fixes and other code cleanup have been applied. 

## SLATE and Federated Operation Security Policy
- Official platform polices are now located at https://slateci.io/docs/security-and-policies/

## API Server and Client
- The production SLATE federation now uses Helm 3 throughout. 
- Edge cluster registration refactored to address problems with auto-detection selecting private IP addresses. 
- Improved caching of available applications in the API server. 
- Updated the CLI client program to more consistently use exit status to signal failures, which should improve its usefulness in scripts. 
- Numerous fixes to the API server and catalog build system to account for changes in Helm 3. 
- Added support in the API server for automatically generating descriptions of edge cluster location using an external geocoding service. 
- Corrected mistakes in the API servers ability to collect and report storage and priority class information for edge clusters. 
- Expanded the CLI client to handle managing components like role-based access control and ingress controllers which are part of SLATE but require edge administrator privileges to manipulate to streamline installation and support updating and removal. 
- Created mechanisms for the SLATE client to handle tab completion across multiple shells
- Added CLI commands for user management

## SLATE Infrastructure
- Configured all virtual machines used to form the SLATE platform which are housed at the University of Chicago to be scanned with InsightVM for security vulnerabilities.
- Restructured automated builds of the CLI client to use the latest version of Alpine Linux for Linux builds, and a CentOS-based cross compiler to produce builds for Mac OS. 
- Work ongoing to improve Puppet infrastructure used by SLATE platform and clusters at the University of Chicago, University of Michigan, and University of Utah.

### The SLATE Sandbox
- Rebuilt with Kubernetes v1.18.0

### MiniSLATE and SLATElite
- MiniSLATE now uses K3s as its Kubernetes backend to provide for a more lightweight experience
 
### Monitoring
- Monitoring infrastructure ported to Helm 3
- Ingress controller modified to allow embedded Grafana charts in the SLATE Console. 
- Prometheus and Thanos monitoring are now working for clusters at the University of Chicago, the University of Michigan, and the University of Utah, using [OSiRIS][https://www.osris.org/] storage infrastructure
- Work continues to refine the SLATE monitoring infrastructure to be easy to use by sites
- Work ongoing to develop CheckMK-based monitoring for the SLATE platform

### Automation
- Updates and hardening of Foreman and Puppet modules
- Creation of Puppet modules that have ability to deploy full virtual Kubernetes machines or Kubernetes with SLATE pre-packaged
- Updates of Puppet modules for updating physical hardware attributes

## Applications
- OSG HostedCE is now marked 'stable'. The HostedCE application is being used in production by the the University of Utah and the University of Illinois
- Logging sidecar pattern has now been integrated into HTCondor worker
- Many SLATE charts have now been updated to have their container image colocated with the Chart definition
- OSG GridFTP and Globus Connect v4 SLATE applications have been overhauled and can now support specifiable control and data port ranges
- SLATE applications now support Network Policies, and will be integrated into all charts in coming weeks
- The Open Science Grid has contributed an "Open Science CE" application, which is being used to support COVID19 research efforts. 
- MariaDB has landed in the stable catalog
- MinIO is now available in the stable catalog
- HTCondor submit and central manager charts are under active development in the incubator catalog. They currently have enough functionality to run a complete HTCondor pool within SLATE. 
- Jupyter with HTCondor is under active development in the incubator catalog
- OSG Frontier Squid Chart extended to support advanced configuration options, including running multiple workers
- Work to build Chart for Open OnDemand with Keycloak-based authentication is ongoing


## Sites
- University of Wisconsin-Madison has added a new SLATE cluster
- New Mexico State University had added a new SLATE cluster
- A new SLATE site has been added for the ATLAS collaboration in Prague, Czech Republic
- The Texas Advanced Computing Center has added a SLATE node for the Frontera supercomputer
- The Univ of Michigan cluster has been updated to Kubernetes 1.18
- A SLATE cluster has been deployed at the South Pole in support of NSF polar research programs such as the South Pole Telescope.  It has thus claimed the unofficial title of _Southern Most Kubernetes Cluster_.
