# Network Policy

## Network Policy Definition
A NetworkPolicy is a special object Kubernetes allows you to add to a given service that defines what its Network behavior of that pod. The main recommended use of this feature is to add a way to limit what CIDR's and therefore what sites can access this instance of a given application. Detailed below are instructions on how to implement such a thing in your application. Full details about network policies can be found in this [kubernetes documentation page](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/).

## Building a Network Policy
To explain how to build a Network Policy the [nginx application](https://github.com/slateci/slate-catalog/tree/master/stable/nginx/nginx) will be used as an example, and its implementation will be referenced multiple times going forward. The first and easiest changes are to the Values file, which give the application user a way of deciding if they want to use this functionality and to define what CIDRs they want to allow for this application. In the nginx app this functionality is turned off by default, so the Enabled value is set to false and a dummy CIDR is fed in. The user would be expected to set Enabled to true and feed in their CIDRs if they wanted this to be turned on

The other piece of building a Network Policy for a SLATE application is the Network Policy template. An example of this can be found in the [network policy of the nginx app](https://github.com/slateci/slate-catalog/blob/network-policy-demo/stable/nginx/nginx/templates/NetworkPolicy.yaml). As you can see this contains two network policies, one for when the functionality is disabled and one for when it is not. The top half for both contains the metadata of the policy, which tells kubelet what this object is and what pods and services to associate it with. The difference lies in the bottom half. For the first policy the functionality is enabled, and so the yaml is set to only allow ingress and egress to/from the CIDRs supplied in the values file. The second policy doesn't limit access, and so for the allowed CIDRs an empty list is supplied. Kubernetes reads this empty list to mean Allow all. If you wanted to create a Deny all policy, than you would not supply a list at all.
